Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core (#34310)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication.md

- [Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9449)
- [Mutual-TLS (MTLS)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8705)

### ID tokens

ID tokens are security tokens that confirm a user’s successful authentication. The tokens allow the client to verify the user’s identity. The JWT token server issues ID tokens containing claims with user information. ID tokens are always in [JWT](https://jwt.io/introduction) format.

ID tokens ***should never*** be used to access APIs.

### Other tokens

There are many types of tokens, including access and ID tokens, as specified by OpenID Connect and OAuth standards. Refresh tokens can be used to refresh a UI app without re-authenticating the user. [OAuth JAR tokens](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9101/) can securely send authorization requests. Verifiable credentials flows utilize JWT types for issuing or verifying credentials. It is crucial to use tokens according to the specifications. See the standards links provided later in this article for more information.

## Using JWT tokens to secure an API

> When using JWT access tokens for API authorization, the API grants or denies access based on the provided token. If the request is not authorized, a 401 or 403 response is returned. The API shouldn't redirect the user to the identity provider to obtain a new token or request additional permissions. The app consuming the API is responsible for acquiring an appropriate token. This ensures a clear separation of concerns between the API (authorization) and the consuming client app (authentication).

Author: added

### 401 Unauthorized

A 401 Unauthorized response indicates that the provided access token doesn't meet the required standards. This could be due to several reasons, including:

* **Invalid signature**: The token's signature doesn't match, suggesting potential tampering.
* **Expiration**: The token has expired and is no longer valid.
* **Incorrect claims**: Critical claims within the token, such as the audience (`aud`) or issuer (`iss`), are missing or invalid.

The [OAuth specifications](/entra/identity-platform/access-token-claims-reference) provide detailed guidelines on the required claims and their validation. 

> 

Author: Added

```csharp
var requireAuthPolicy = new AuthorizationPolicyBuilder()
	.RequireAuthenticatedUser()
	.Build();

builder.Services.AddAuthorizationBuilder()
	.SetFallbackPolicy(requireAuthPolicy);
```

The [Authorize](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.authorization.authorizeattribute) attribute can also be used to force the authentication. If multiple schemes are used, the bearer scheme generally needs to be set as the default authentication scheme or specified via `[Authorize(AuthenticationSchemes = JwtBearerDefaults.AuthenticationScheme])`.

```csharp
[Authorize]
[ApiController]
[Route("[controller]")]
public class WeatherForecastController : ControllerBase
{

> ```

Author: fixed

---
title: Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core
author: damienbod
description: Learn how to set up JWT bearer authentication in an ASP.NET Core app.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-8.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 12/7/2024
uid: security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication
---
# Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core

By [Damien Bowden](https://github.com/damienbod)

> JWT (JSON Web Token) Bearer Authentication is commonly utilized for APIs. While it operates similarly to cookie authentication, the identity provider issues a JWT or tokens upon a successful authentication which can then be sent to other servers to authenticate unlike cookies which are only sent back to the issuing domain. A JWT is a self-contained token that encapsulates information for an API resource or a client. The client which requested the JWT can request data from an API resource using the Authorization header and a bearer token.

Reviewer: Split up RO sentence:

```suggestion
JWT (JSON Web Token) Bearer Authentication is commonly utilized for APIs. While it operates similarly to cookie authentication, the identity provider issues a JWT or tokens upon a successful authentication. These tokens can then be sent to other servers to authenticate, unlike cookies which are only sent back to the issuing domain. A JWT is a self-contained token that encapsulates information for an API resource or a client. The client which requested the JWT can request data from an API resource using the Authorization header and a bearer token.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For an introduction to JWT Bearer Authentication, see [JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/introduction/.)
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

For an introduction to JWT Bearer Authentication, see [JSON Web Tokens.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Token)
```

It's pretty similar content, but Wikipedia is more in-depth vender neutral. I also think people new to the space will more likely be overwhelmed by mentions of HMAC, RSA and ECDSA without links in the Okta intro than the intro to the Wikipedia article which gives a good example of a "logged in as administrator" claim in the intro. The Okta only explains claims later on in the "Payload" section.

> 

Reviewer: @halter73  to me, without an intro, it's muddy waters

For someone new to JWT, I think it's helpful to point out at the top, it's more than authentication .

Per @halter73 

 comment https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/pull/34310#discussion_r1919377225, 

 > but that's already well covered in the "Downstream APIs" section.

 I think it's OK to provide introductory concepts when they are covered later in the doc.
 
 Can we add something like the following?

The suggestion seems better in the introduction, it doesn't seem to fit in token types. Maybe move it back

```suggestion

JWT Bearer Authentication provides:

* **Authentication**: When using the `JwtBearerHandler`, bearer tokens are essential for authentication. The `JwtBearerHandler` validates the token and extracts the user's identity from its claims.
* **Authorization**: Bearer tokens enable authorization by providing a collection of claims representing the user's permissions, much like a cookie.
* **Delegated Authorization**: When a token is presented to an API, this process is known as *delegated authorization*. The API uses the claims within the token to determine if the user is authorized to access the requested endpoint.
* **Token Transparency**: The token doesn't reveal who or what obtained it, or how it was issued.

```

Reviewer 2: What's wrong the current intro?

> JWT (JSON Web Token) Bearer Authentication is commonly utilized for APIs. While it operates similarly to cookie authentication, the identity provider issues a JWT or tokens upon a successful authentication. These tokens can then be sent to other servers to authenticate, unlike cookies which are only sent back to the issuing domain. A JWT is a self-contained token that encapsulates information for an API resource or a client. The client which requested the JWT can request data from an API resource using the Authorization header and a bearer token.

Is it that it doesn't mention claims? Or do we want a bulleted list for easy skim reading?

```suggestion

JWT Bearer Authentication provides:

* **Authentication**: When using the `JwtBearerHandler`, bearer tokens are essential for authentication. The `JwtBearerHandler` validates the token and extracts the user's identity from its claims.
* **Authorization**: Bearer tokens enable authorization by providing a collection of claims representing the user's or application's permissions, much like a cookie.
* **Delegated Authorization**: When a user-specific access token is used to authenticate between APIs instead of an application-wide access token, this process is known as *delegated authorization*.

```

If we want a bulleted list, maybe go with this? A JWT doesn't necessarily have to reveal how it was issued, but it often does. The `iss` or issuer is a standard claim. In Entra it tells you this:

> Identifies the issuer, or "authorization server" that constructs and returns the token. It also identifies the tenant for which the user was authenticated.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/id-token-claims-reference#payload-claims

This seems to me to indicate at least a few things about how it was issued. It's true that the token might have been forwarded, and you'd have no way to know that just by inspecting the token, but I don't think that's worth mentioning in an intro.

[View or download sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication/sample/JwtBearer)

This article covers the following areas:

* Token types
* Using JWT tokens to secure an APIs
* How OIDC/OAuth fits into this?
* Implementing JWT bearer token authentication
* Recommended approaches to create a JWT

## Token types

> 

Reviewer: @halter73  to me, without an intro, it's muddy waters

For someone new to JWT, I think it's helpful to point out at the top, it's more than authentication .

Per @halter73 

 comment https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/pull/34310#discussion_r1919377225, 

 > but that's already well covered in the "Downstream APIs" section.

 I think it's OK to provide introductory concepts when they are covered later in the doc.
 
 Can we add something like the following?

```suggestion

* **Authentication**: When using the `JwtBearerHandler`, bearer tokens are essential for authentication. The `JwtBearerHandler` validates the token and extracts the user's identity from its claims.
* **Authorization**: Bearer tokens enable authorization by providing a collection of claims representing the user's permissions, much like a cookie.
* **Delegated Authorization**: When a token is presented to an API, this process is known as *delegated authorization*. The API uses the claims within the token to determine if the user is authorized to access the requested endpoint.
* **Token Transparency**: The token doesn't reveal who or what obtained it, or how it was issued.

```

---
title: Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core
author: damienbod
description: Learn how to set up JWT bearer authentication in an ASP.NET Core app.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-8.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 12/7/2024
uid: security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication
---
# Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core

By [Damien Bowden](https://github.com/damienbod)

> 

Reviewer: How about an intro?

```suggestion

JWT (JSON Web Token) Bearer Authentication bearer authentication is commonly utilized for APIs. While it operates similarly to cookie authentication, instead of a cookie, the server issues a JWT upon successful authentication. This JWT is a self-contained token that encapsulates user information and permissions. The client then includes the JWT in the Authorization header for all subsequent requests.
```

Author: Fixed with this:

JWT (JSON Web Token) Bearer Authentication is commonly utilized for APIs. While it operates similarly to cookie authentication, instead of a cookie, the server issues a JWT or tokens upon a successful authentication. A JWT is a self-contained token that encapsulates information for an API resource or a client. The client which requested the JWT can request data from an API resource using the Authorization header and a bearer token.

Reviewer: Massive improvement o my version and I think makes for a great intro.

---
title: Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core
author: damienbod
description: Learn how to set up JWT bearer authentication in an ASP.NET Core app.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-8.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 12/7/2024
uid: security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication
---
# Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core

By [Damien Bowden](https://github.com/damienbod)

> JWT (JSON Web Token) Bearer Authentication is commonly utilized for APIs. While it operates similarly to cookie authentication, instead of a cookie, the server issues a JWT or tokens upon a successful authentication. A JWT is a self-contained token that encapsulates information for an API resource or a client. The client which requested the JWT can request data from an API resource using the Authorization header and a bearer token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JWT (JSON Web Token) Bearer Authentication is commonly utilized for APIs. While it operates similarly to cookie authentication, instead of a cookie, the identity provider issues a JWT or tokens upon a successful authentication. A JWT is a self-contained token that encapsulates information for an API resource or a client. The client which requested the JWT can request data from an API resource using the Authorization header and a bearer token.
```

I don't want to imply that the server running ASP.NET Core has built-in support to issue JWTs.

[View or download sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication/sample/JwtBearer)

This article covers the following areas:

* Token types
* Using JWT tokens to secure an APIs
* How OIDC/OAuth fits into this?
* Implementing JWT bearer token authentication
* Recommended approaches to create a JWT

> ## Authentication v Authorization
> 
> Bearer tokens are often treated as an authentication mechanism, but in practice, the tokens are used primarily for authorization. Authentication occurs when a user first requests an access token in the UI layer. When the token is presented to an API, the process is more accurately described as *delegated authorization*. Because the token itself doesn't reveal who or what obtained it or how it was issued, the API can only confirm whether the token is valid for calling the requested resource.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I should have asked for this earlier, but can we remove this section? I don't know who this helps. To me it only seems to muddy the waters. Bearer tokens are a critical to authentication when you're using the `JwtBearerHandler`, but in the end it's just a trusted bag of claims much like a cookie.

It sounds like you're trying to convey that, unlike with cookies, it's okay for a web application to forward JWT access tokens to other services, but that's already well covered in the "Downstream APIs" section. I don't think this should be the first section after the intro. It makes far more sense to lead with "Token Types".

ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 12/7/2024
uid: security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication
---
# Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core

By [Damien Bowden](https://github.com/damienbod)

[View or download sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication/sample/JwtBearer)

This article covers the following areas:

* Token types
* Using JWT tokens to secure an APIs
* How OIDC/OAuth fits into this?
* Implementing JWT bearer token authentication
* Recommended approaches to create a JWT
* Downstream APIs
* Handling access tokens
* YARP
* Testing APIs

Is this really authentication?

Using bearer tokens as the authentication method is not really authentication but more authorization. Authentication is implemented when requesting access tokens for the first time in a UI application. Requesting data in an API can be described as delegated authorization. Using bearer tokens, you do not know who or what sent the access token and you do not know how the access token was acquired. The application can only say if the token is valid to use the requested API.

## Token types

> There are many different types of tokens and many formats. You should not be creating access tokens or ID tokens yourself unless in testing scenarios. Creating self-made tokens and not following standards usually ends up with security problems and can only be used in closed systems. It is recommended to use OpenID Connect and/or OAuth to create access tokens for API access. 

Author: Fixed in commit: Fix Token types 

I used different links and did not specify the OAuth link, because there are multiple standards defined for this.

### Access tokens

> An access token is a string used by a client application to make requests to the server implementing an API. Access tokens can vary in format and different APIs may use different formats for the tokens.
> 
> An access token can be encrypted. Access tokens should never be read or interpreted by a web client or UI application holding the access token, only an API is the intended audience.
> 
> Access tokens are intended solely for making requests to an API. This is normally sent to the API in the **Authorization** request header as a bearer token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access tokens:

* Are strings used by a client app to make requests to the server implementing an API.
* Can vary in format. Different APIs may use different formats for the tokens.
* Can be encrypted.
* Should never be read or interpreted by a web client or UI app holding the access token.
* Are intended solely for making requests to an API.
* Are typically sent to the API in the **Authorization** request header as a bearer token.
```

See [The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-1.4)

> #### Application access tokens and delegeted Access tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Application access tokens and delegated access tokens
```

Author: fixed

> When requesting or creating an access token, an application or an application acting on behalf of a user can request an access token. The tokens are **application access tokens** or **delegated access tokens**. The tokens have different claims and are handled and persisted in different ways. An application is normally persisted once in the application until it expires where the delegated access token is persisted per user, either in a cookie or in a cache on a secure server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When requesting or creating an access token, an app, or an app acting on behalf of a user, can request an access token. These tokens can be either *application access tokens* or *delegated access tokens*. The tokens have different claims and are managed and stored differently. An *application access token* is typically stored once in the app until it expires, while a *delegated access token* is stored per user, either in a cookie or in a secure server cache.
```

Author: fixed

> It is recommended to use delegated user access tokens whenever a user is involved. Downstream APIs can request a delegated user access token on behalf of the authenticated user. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using delegated user access tokens whenever a user is involved. Downstream APIs can request a delegated user access token on behalf of the authenticated user. 
```

Author: fixed

#### Sender constrained access tokens

> There are two types of access tokens: **bearer tokens** and **sender-constrained** tokens. Sender-constrained tokens require the requesting client to prove possession of a private key to use the token, ensuring the token cannot be used independently. Sender-constrained tokens can be implemented in two ways:
> 
> - Demonstrating Proof-of-Possession (DPoP)
> - MTLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of access tokens: [bearer tokens](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/token-types#bearer) and [sender-constrained tokens](https://docs.verify.ibm.com/ibm-security-verify-access/docs/tasks-certboundaccesstoken). Sender-constrained tokens require the requesting client to prove possession of a private key to use the token. Proving possession of a private key guarantees the token can't be used independently. Sender-constrained tokens can be implemented in two ways:

- [Demonstrating Proof-of-Possession (DPoP)](https://curity.io/resources/learn/dpop-overview)
- [Mutual TLS (MTLS)](https://www.securew2.com/blog/mutual-tls-mtls-authentication)
```

### ID tokens

> ID tokens are security tokens that confirm a user’s successful authentication. The tokens allow the client to verify the user’s identity. The secure token server issues ID tokens containing claims with user information. ID tokens are always in JWT (JSON Web Token) format.

Reviewer: I deleted secure from secure token server. Aren't JWT servers secure? Per MS style guide, less is more.

```suggestion
ID tokens are security tokens that confirm a user’s successful authentication. The tokens allow the client to verify the user’s identity. The JWT token server issues ID tokens containing claims with user information. ID tokens are always in [JWT](https://jwt.io/introduction) format.
```

Author: fixed

> ID tokens should never be used to access APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ID tokens ***should never*** be used to access APIs.
```

Author: fixed

### Other tokens

> There are many different types of tokens as well as access tokens and ID tokens. OpenID Connect and OAuth standards specify many different types. Refresh tokens can be used to refresh a UI application without authenticating the user again, OAuth JAR tokens can be used to send authorization requests is a secure way. Verifiable credentials flows use JWT types in issuing or verifying credentials. It is important to use the tokens following the specifications. Please refer to the standards provided in the links for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many types of tokens, including access and ID tokens, as specified by OpenID Connect and OAuth standards. Refresh tokens can be used to refresh a UI app without re-authenticating the user. [OAuth JAR tokens](https://connect2id.com/products/nimbus-oauth-openid-connect-sdk/examples/oauth/jar) can securely send authorization requests. Verifiable credentials flows utilize JWT types for issuing or verifying credentials. It is crucial to use tokens according to the specifications. See the standards links provided later in this article for more information.
```

Author: fixed

---
title: Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core
author: damienbod
description: Learn how to set up JWT bearer authentication in an ASP.NET Core app.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-8.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 12/7/2024
uid: security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication
---
# Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core

By [Damien Bowden](https://github.com/damienbod)

[View or download sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication/sample/JwtBearer)

This article covers the following areas:

* Token types
* Using JWT tokens to secure an APIs
* How OIDC/OAuth fits into this?
* Implementing JWT bearer token authentication
* Recommended approaches to create a JWT
* Downstream APIs
* Handling access tokens
* YARP
* Testing APIs

## Authentication v Authorization

> Bearer tokens are often treated as an authentication mechanism, but in practice, they used primarily for authorization. Authentication occurs when a user first requests an access token in the UI layer. When the token is presented to an API, the process is more accurately described as *delegated authorization*. Because the token itself does not reveal who or what obtained it or how it was issued, the API can only confirm whether the token is valid for calling the requested resource.

Author: Fixed

- [Demonstrating Proof of Possession (DPoP)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9449)
- [Mutual-TLS (MTLS)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8705)

### ID tokens

ID tokens are security tokens that confirm a user’s successful authentication. The tokens allow the client to verify the user’s identity. The JWT token server issues ID tokens containing claims with user information. ID tokens are always in [JWT](https://jwt.io/introduction) format.

ID tokens ***should never*** be used to access APIs.

### Other tokens

There are many types of tokens, including access and ID tokens, as specified by OpenID Connect and OAuth standards. Refresh tokens can be used to refresh a UI app without re-authenticating the user. [OAuth JAR tokens](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9101/) can securely send authorization requests. Verifiable credentials flows utilize JWT types for issuing or verifying credentials. It is crucial to use tokens according to the specifications. See the standards links provided later in this article for more information.

## Using JWT tokens to secure an API

> When using JWT access tokens to authorize an API, the request is allowed, or not allowed. If the request is not authorized, a 401 response or a 403 response is returned. The API should never redirect to the identity provider to acquire more permissions or the correct access token. That is the responsibility of the UI requesting the data from the API.

Author: fixed

### 401 Unauthorized

> A 401 response is returned when the access token has an invalid standard requirement. The OAuth specifications are clear which claims must be valid and how to validate the claims in the access token. This could be the wrong signature, or the token has expired or one of the required claims like the audience or the issuer is incorrect. 

Author: fixed

### 403 Forbidden

> A 403 forbidden response is normally returned when a business permission is missing. The authorization has nothing to do with the authentication or the standard claims used in the access token. This could be implemented using an ASP.NET requirement with a policy or also a role authorization.

Author: fixed

> ## How OIDC/OAuth fits into this?

Author: Updated to ## What role has OIDC and/or OAuth when using bearer tokens?

> When using access tokens, only the access token is validated on the API. The process of acquiring the access token is unspecified.  OpenID Connect and OAuth specify standards on how to acquire access tokens in a safe way. This process is different for every type of application. It is complicated to implement this in a safe way. This is why it is recommended to use one of the standards to create access tokens. OpenID Connect is used to create access tokens for an application and a user. These access tokens are user delegated access tokens. In a web application, a confidential OpenID Connect code flow using PKCE is the recommended way to implement this. If the application has no user, OAuth client credentials can be used to acquire an application access token. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an API uses JWT access tokens for authorization, the API only validates the access token, not on how the token was obtained.

OpenID Connect (OIDC) and OAuth 2.0 provide standardized, secure frameworks for token acquisition. Token acquisition varies depending on the type of app. Due to the complexity of secure token acquisition, it's highly recommended to rely on these standards:

* For apps acting on behalf of a user: OIDC is the preferred choice, enabling delegated user access. In web apps, the confidential code flow with [Proof Key for Code Exchange](https://oauth.net/2/pkce/) (PKCE) is recommended for enhanced security.
* If the app has no user: The OAuth 2.0 client credentials flow is suitable for obtaining application access tokens.
```

Author: Fixed

```csharp
[Authorize]
[ApiController]
[Route("[controller]")]
public class WeatherForecastController : ControllerBase
{
```

## Recommended approaches to create a JWT

When using access tokens, many security problems arise because the access tokens are created or stored in an unsecure way. The application did not authenticate the user in a strong way or the access token was persisted directly in the browser using local storage, session storage or web workers. The following section describes some best practices for applications using and creating access tokens.

### Use standards

Standards like OpenID Connect or OAuth should always be used when creating access tokens. Access tokens should not be created in your applications without the correct security precautions.  Only in test scenarios, should you be creating access tokens.

### Use asymmetric keys

Asymmetric keys should always be used when creating access tokens. The public key is available in the well known endpoints and the API clients can validate the signature of the access token using the public key.

### Should I create an access token from a username/password request?

> You should NOT create an access token from a username/password request. This is not authentication and is open to impersonation attacks and phishing attacks. Access tokens should only be created using an OpenID Connect flow or an OAuth standard flow. Not using standards can result in security problems.

Author: fixed

### Access tokens in Web applications

> Secure web applications require a backend and store access tokens somewhere on the trusted server. Only a secure HTTP only cookie is shared on the client browser.

Author: fixed

## Downstream APIs

> APIs sometimes require user data from downstream APIs on behalf of the user authenticated in the calling application. The API could just implement an OAuth client credentials flow, but this would mean a full trust between the two API applications. A better way to implement this would be to use a zero-trust strategy and use a delegated user access token. For this to work, the API requires access for the new identity, the user calling the application and the API itself. There are fours ways to implement this:

Author: fixed

### Use OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange to request a new delegated access token
This is a great way to implement this requirement but is complicated if you must implement the OAuth flow yourself. 

See [OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8693)

### Use Microsoft on behalf of flow to request a new delegated access token

> This works very well and is super easy to implement when using Microsoft .Identity.Web. It only works with Microsoft Entra ID, Microsoft Entra External ID and Microsoft Azure AD B2C.

Author: Fixed: Using the [Microsoft Identity Web authentication library](/entra/msal/dotnet/microsoft-identity-web/) is the easiest and a secure approach. It only works with Microsoft Entra ID, Microsoft Entra External ID.

> See [[Microsoft identity platform and OAuth 2.0 On-Behalf-Of flow](/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-on-behalf-of-flow)

Author: fixed

### Use the same delegated access token sent to the API
This is easy to implement but the access token has access to both APIs. Yarp reverse proxy can be used to implement this. This is easy to implement.

### Use OAuth client credentials flow and use an application access token
This is easy to implement but the client application has full application access and not a delegated access token. The token should be cached in the client API application.

> Note
> Any app-to-app security would also work. Certificate authentication can be used or in Azure a managed identity can be used. 

## Handling access tokens

When using access tokens in a client application, the access tokens need to be rotated, persisted and stored somewhere on the server. In a web application, cookies are used to secure the session. The cookies should not contain the access tokens as the size of the cookie would become too large.

> Duende.AccessTokenManagement.OpenIdConnect is a great Nuget package for handling and managing access tokens in the client application. 

Author: Fixed, used the link to the FOSS part

> Note

> > If deploying the production, the cache should work in a mutli-instance deployment and a persistent cache is normally required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If deploying to production, the cache should work in a mutli-instance deployment. A persistent cache is normally required.
```

Some secure token servers encrypt the access tokens. Access tokens do not require any format. When using OAuth introspection, a reference token is used instead of an access token. A client (UI) application should never open an access token as the access token is not intended for this. Only an API for which the access token was created for should open the access token. 

* Do not open access tokens in a UI application
* Do not send the ID token to the APIs
* Access tokens can have any format
* Access tokens can be encrypted
* Access tokens expire and need to be rotated
* Access tokens are persisted on a secure backend server

## YARP

> YARP (Yet Another Reverse Proxy) is a great tool for handling http requests and forwarding the requests to other APIs. YARP can implement security logic for acquiring new access credentials. YARP is used a lot in the backend for frontend (BFF) security architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[YARP (Yet Another Reverse Proxy)](https://microsoft.github.io/reverse-proxy/) is a good tool for handling HTTP requests and forwarding the requests to other APIs. YARP can implement security logic for acquiring new access credentials. YARP is frequently used in the [backend for frontend (BFF)](https://auth0.com/blog/the-backend-for-frontend-pattern-bff/) security architecture.
```

## Testing APIs

> Testing secure APIs can be implemented in different ways. Integration tests and containers with access tokens can be used to test the APIs. You can also create the access tokens using the dotnet user-jwts tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integration tests and containers with access tokens can be used to test secure APIs. Access tokens can be created using the [dotnet user-jwts tool](/aspnet/core/security/authentication/jwt-authn).
```

Reviewer: @damienbod @halter73  I fixed the link and moved it to where it's used. It reads better and the MS style guide mantra is less is more.

<img width="339" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/02712651-85d5-4518-915b-b9082baba0d7" />

> [Manage JSON Web Tokens in development with dotnet user-jwts](xref:security/authentication/jwt)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I think we need this link?

> It is important not to create security problems in the API so that you can test the API. When delegated access tokens are used, it is more difficult to test as the tokens can only be created using a UI and an OpenID Connect flow. If using a test tool to create the delegated access tokens, security features must be disabled for the tests. It is important that the features are only disabled in the test environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that security problems are **not** introduced into the API for testing purposes. Testing becomes more challenging when delegated access tokens are used, as these tokens can only be created through a UI and an OpenID Connect flow. If a test tool is used to create delegated access tokens, security features must be disabled for testing. It's essential that these features are only disabled in the test environment.

Create dedicated and isolated test environments where security features can safely be disable or modified. Ensure these changes are strictly limited to the test environment.
```

### Use Swagger, Postman and other API UI tools

> Swagger and Postman are great UI tools for testing APIs. For the tools to work, the API can produce an Open API document and this can be loaded into the client testing tool. A security flow to acquire a new access token can be added to the API Open API file. 

Reviewer: Rewrite this without Postman. PM has been nixed by MS security.  We replace PM with Curl.

Author: fixed

> > Note 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Warning
```

> Do not deploy insecure security test flows to production.

> If implementing a Swagger UI for an API, you should normally not deploy the UI to production as the security must be weakened to allow this to work. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swagger UI for an API should only be enabled in the development environment, and never in production. Security must be lowered to enable Swagger UI .
```

Or, weaker version, less secure version

```suggestion
When implementing a Swagger UI for an API, you should normally not deploy the UI to production as the security must

folks who limit and control  access to the production app know they can skip this mandate.

Author: fixed, sometimes the UI is required in production, with weakened security headers

---
title: Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core
author: damienbod
description: Learn how to set up JWT bearer authentication in an ASP.NET Core app.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-8.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 12/7/2024
uid: security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication
---
# Configure JWT bearer authentication in ASP.NET Core

By [Damien Bowden](https://github.com/damienbod)

[View or download sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/main/aspnetcore/security/authentication/configure-jwt-bearer-authentication/sample/JwtBearer)

This article covers the following areas:

* Token types
* Using JWT tokens to secure an APIs
* How OIDC/OAuth fits into this?
* Implementing JWT bearer token authentication
* Recommended approaches to create a JWT
* Downstream APIs
* Handling access tokens
* YARP

> * Testing APIs

Author: removed

```csharp
builder.Services.AddAuthentication(JwtBearerDefaults.AuthenticationScheme)
.AddJwtBearer(jwtOptions =>
{
	jwtOptions.Authority = "https://{--your-authority--}";
	jwtOptions.Audience = "https://{--your-audience--}";
});
```

### JWT bearer token explicit validation

The [AddJwtBearer](/dotnet/api/microsoft.extensions.dependencyinjection.jwtbearerextensions.addjwtbearer) method provides multiple configurations. Some secure token providers use a non-standard metadata address and the parameter can be setup explicitly. The API can accept multiple issuers or audiences. The [ValidTypes](/dotnet/api/microsoft.identitymodel.tokens.tokenvalidationparameters.validtypes) types can be used to validate the "at+jwt" header if the value is supported.

```csharp
builder.Services.AddAuthentication()
.AddJwtBearer("some-scheme", jwtOptions =>
{
	jwtOptions.MetadataAddress = builder.Configuration["Api:MetadataAddress"]!;

> 	jwtOptions.Authority = builder.Configuration["Api:Authority"];

Author: The authority is also used for validation of a claim in the access token returned in some client libraries.

	jwtOptions.Audience = builder.Configuration["Api:Audience"];
	jwtOptions.TokenValidationParameters = new TokenValidationParameters
	{
		ValidateIssuer = true,
		ValidateAudience = true,
		ValidateIssuerSigningKey = true,

> 		ValidAudiences = builder.Configuration.GetSection("Api:ValidAudiences").Get<string[]>(),

Author: Updated this with some text. I have encountered every combination of the setup depending on the access token and the secure token server and the client library used for validation.

> 		ValidAudiences = builder.Configuration.GetSection("Api:ValidAudiences").Get<string[]>(),

Author: @halter73 Update good? Or change?

		ValidIssuers = builder.Configuration.GetSection("Api:ValidIssuers").Get<string[]>()
	};

> 	jwtOptions.MapInboundClaims = false;

Author: Added a link

	jwtOptions.TokenValidationParameters.ValidTypes = ["at+jwt"];
});
```

> ### JWT with multiple schemes

Author: @halter73 @Rick-Anderson  new PR?

> ### JWT with multiple schemes

Author: fixed

APIs often need to accommodate access tokens from various issuers. Supporting multiple token issuers in an API can be accomplished by:

* **Separate APIs**: Create distinct APIs with dedicated authentication schemes for each issuer.
* [AddPolicyScheme](/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.authentication.authenticationbuilder.addpolicyscheme): This method can define multiple authentication schemes and implement logic to select the appropriate scheme based on token properties (e.g., issuer, claims). This approach allows for greater flexibility within a single API.

```csharp
services.AddAuthentication(options =>
{
	options.DefaultScheme = "UNKNOWN";
	options.DefaultChallengeScheme = "UNKNOWN";

})
.AddJwtBearer(Consts.MY_AUTH0_SCHEME, options =>
{
	options.Authority = "https://dev-damienbod.eu.auth0.com/";
	options.Audience = "https://auth0-api1";
	options.TokenValidationParameters = new TokenValidationParameters
	{
		ValidateIssuer = true,
		ValidateAudience = true,
		ValidateIssuerSigningKey = true,
		ValidAudiences = Configuration.GetSection("ValidAudiences").Get<string[]>(),
		ValidIssuers = Configuration.GetSection("ValidIssuers").Get<string[]>()
	};

> })

Author: fixed

.AddJwtBearer(Consts.MY_AAD_SCHEME, jwtOptions =>
{
	jwtOptions.MetadataAddress = Configuration["AzureAd:MetadataAddress"]; 
	jwtOptions.Authority = Configuration["AzureAd:Authority"];
	jwtOptions.Audience = Configuration["AzureAd:Audience"]; 
	jwtOptions.TokenValidationParameters = new TokenValidationParameters
	{
		ValidateIssuer = true,
		ValidateAudience = true,
		ValidateIssuerSigningKey = true,
		ValidAudiences = Configuration.GetSection("ValidAudiences").Get<string[]>(),
		ValidIssuers = Configuration.GetSection("ValidIssuers").Get<string[]>()
	};
})
.AddPolicyScheme("UNKNOWN", "UNKNOWN", options =>
{
	options.ForwardDefaultSelector = context =>
	{
		string authorization = context.Request.Headers[HeaderNames.Authorization];
		if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(authorization) && authorization.StartsWith("Bearer "))
		{
			var token = authorization.Substring("Bearer ".Length).Trim();

> 			var jwtHandler = new JwtSecurityTokenHandler();

Reviewer 2: Can we update this to use the `JsonWebTokenHandler`? It's faster and what's now used by default internally by the JWT and OIDC auth handers.

Author: Updated to JsonWebTokenHandler

Author: And ReadJsonWebToken

			if(jwtHandler.CanReadToken(token)) // it's a self contained access token and not encrypted
			{
				var issuer = jwtHandler.ReadJwtToken(token).Issuer; //.Equals("B2C-Authority"))

> 				if(issuer == Consts.MY_OPENIDDICT_ISS) // OpenIddict
> 				{
> 					return OpenIddictValidationAspNetCoreDefaults.AuthenticationScheme;
> 				}
> 
> 				if (issuer == Consts.MY_AUTH0_ISS) // Auth0
> 				{
> 					return Consts.MY_AUTH0_SCHEME;
> 				}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
				if (issuer == Consts.MY_THIRD_PARTY_ISS) // Third party identity provider
				{
					return Consts.MY_THIRD_PARTY_SCHEME;
				}
```

See [[Microsoft identity platform and OAuth 2.0 On-Behalf-Of flow](/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-on-behalf-of-flow)

### Use the same delegated access token sent to the API
This is easy to implement but the access token has access to both APIs. Yarp reverse proxy can be used to implement this. This is easy to implement.

### Use OAuth client credentials flow and use an application access token
This is easy to implement but the client application has full application access and not a delegated access token. The token should be cached in the client API application.

> Note
> Any app-to-app security would also work. Certificate authentication can be used or in Azure a managed identity can be used. 

## Handling access tokens

When using access tokens in a client application, the access tokens need to be rotated, persisted and stored somewhere on the server. In a web application, cookies are used to secure the session. The cookies should not contain the access tokens as the size of the cookie would become too large.

Duende.AccessTokenManagement.OpenIdConnect is a great Nuget package for handling and managing access tokens in the client application. 

> Note

> > If deploying the production, the cache should work in a mutli-instance deployment and a persistent cache is normally required.

Author: fixed
